# How-To-Choose-The-Best-Acoustic-Guitar-For-Beginners
<p>What is the&nbsp;<a class="external" href="https://best-of-acoustic-guitar.blogspot.com/2020/01/best-choice-products-38in-beginner.html" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">best acoustic guitar</a>&nbsp;for beginners is a question that in recent years has been the subject of much discussion and complex conjecture from both manufacturers, sellers and experts alike. The truth is, most of the facts you actually need. They are refreshingly simple, and there is absolutely no need to be getting bogged down in a technical quoting mire.</p>
<p>If you are seriously considering learning to play the guitar and you are looking for the best choice of instrument you are very lucky because arguably there has never been a better time in history than right now to buy. But before you decide I urge you to read this article in full. Don't make the mistakes that thousands of others are making right now! Be warned. The wrong choice of a guitar can set a beginner back months and seriously affect the progress of an intermediate player.</p>
<p>Firstly: unless your budget is drastically restricted please do not buy a cheap guitar. Now by this, I mean sub $100. If you are a serious enthusiast I can almost guarantee that given a few weeks or months you'll find yourself regretting it. Try and think of your first guitar as an investment. If you enjoy your first guitar experience then you will want to hang on to it, or better still pass it on to a budding family member.</p>
<p>Do not purchase by color or appearance alone: the biggest mistake most beginners make is to purchase this way. The crucial reasons for purchasing the right guitar are not based on looks but on craftsmanship, feel and sound. If you cannot play the instrument well enough to test these factors correctly then this may seriously affect your perception of the instrument and ultimately, your ability to play it.</p>
<p>Do not get bogged down with technical hype. The humble guitar is something to be loved and enjoyed not inspected with a microscope. The greatest racing drivers don't build there racing cars they just drive them and enjoy the experience. Ok, so once you have mastered the instrument you might want to know more about its construction, but that comes later.</p>
<p>Just do it: if you really want to play guitar, don't sit around thinking about it forever. Most able people are capable of playing the guitar. Playing open chords (nonbarred) is relatively easy, and once you have mastered those basic elements the sky really is the limit. Choose your first guitar wisely, after all, you're time and money are precious commodities. Get more help below.</p>
<p>Rick Collins is a professional session guitarist and music teacher. His website focuses on reviewing Acoustic Guitars, with full reviews and links to the best deals. To see Ricks No.1 choice Best Acoustic guitar for beginners please go to -&gt;&nbsp;<a class="external" href="https://best-of-acoustic-guitar.blogspot.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">https://best-of-acoustic-guitar.blogspot.com/</a></p>
